# Hierarchical clustering as a quality control mechanism to reduce variation in laser inscribed graphene electronics
Laser-inscribed graphene (LIG), initially developed for graphene supercapacitors, has found widespread use in the biological study, particularly in sensor fabrication applications. However, the significant batch-to-batch variation in LIG production introduces uncertainty that cannot be adequately tracked during the manufacturing process. Therefore, there is an urgent need for robust quality control (QC) methodologies to identify and select similar and good LIG samples for biosensor fabrication which could reduce the biosensor variation. In this work, we have developed a statistical workflow and an open-source hierarchical clustering tool for QC analysis in LIG manufacturing for electrochemical sensing. The QC process was challenged with multi-operator CV data (including data for metalized LIG). As a proof of concept, we integrate the QC process developed here for manufacturing of a LIG-based biosensor. The study demonstrates that our QC process can rapidly identify similar LIG electrodes from batches (n>36) of electrodes. In addition to this, we conducted a comparative study to evaluate the sensor variation with and without implementing our QC process in electroanalytical sensing. The results indicate that utilizing our QC process can lead to a reduction in sensor variation by approximately 30% compared to the control group without QC. The statistical workflow and open-source code presented here provide a portfolio of clustering tools which make major improvements for the solutions of LIG electrode selection problem.
